README.md, before:

hap.random
==========

A D library for random number generation and related functionality such
as sampling, shuffling and so on.

`hap.random` is intended as a replacement for Phobos' `std.random`, and
addresses a number of issues encountered in that module.  In particular,
`hap.random` implements random number generators and related entities
as reference types rather than value types.  It is however largely
derivative of `std.random` and to the greatest extent possible
implements the same API, with some functional additions, notably the
random distribution ranges.

The library name, `hap`, is Welsh for "random" or "chance". :-)


Using
-----

To import all standard functionality from the library, use

```
import hap.random;
```

The individual package modules `hap.random.generator`, `hap.random.distribution`,
`hap.random.adaptor` and `hap.random.traits` can alternatively be imported
individually depending on need.

The experimental module `hap.random.device` must be imported individually
and should be used with caution; its API may be subject to change.


Building
--------

`hap.random` is a source library, but the included Makefile offers some
utilities for developers:

```
make unittest
```

will build and run two different unittest executables, `unit` and
`unit-xper`, covering respectively the standard and experimental parts
of the library.

```
make benchmark
```

will build two benchmarking executables: `benchmarknew` benchmarks
`hap.random` itself while `benchmarkold` offers comparable speed tests
of `std.random`.

```
make doc
```

can be used to build documentation.


Contributing
------------

Contributions of code, issue reports or simply suggestions are all welcome.
`hap.random` is released under the Boost License 1.0, so code submissions
must be similarly licensed.

Commit message:

Convert hap to a dub package
The dub package setup divides hap.random into a main package consisting
of all the non-experimental parts of the library, and the subpackage
hap.random:experimental which (as the name suggests:-) contains the
experimental parts, currently limited to hap.random.device.

The Makefile is preserved, but has been tweaked to deal with the new
directory structure.  Conceptually one should see the Makefile as
serving the needs of the developer hacking directly on hap.random,
providing unittest and benchmark support, while the dub package supports
3rd-party use.

A version number has been omitted for now, and will be added after final
tweaks are made to the library.

README.md, after:

hap.random
==========

A D library for random number generation and related functionality such
as sampling, shuffling and so on.

`hap.random` is intended as a replacement for Phobos' `std.random`, and
addresses a number of issues encountered in that module.  In particular,
`hap.random` implements random number generators and related entities
as reference types rather than value types.  It is however largely
derivative of `std.random` and to the greatest extent possible
implements the same API, with some functional additions, notably the
random distribution ranges.

The library name, `hap`, is Welsh for "random" or "chance". :-)


Using
-----

To import all standard functionality from the library, use

```
import hap.random;
```

The individual package modules `hap.random.generator`, `hap.random.distribution`,
`hap.random.adaptor` and `hap.random.traits` can alternatively be imported
individually depending on need.

The experimental module `hap.random.device` must be imported individually
and should be used with caution; its API may be subject to change.


Building/installing
-------------------

`hap.random` is a source library, and can be used as a `dub` package
dependency.

```
dub fetch hap.random
```

should get you a copy from the `code.dlang.org` repository.

In addition, the included Makefile offers some utilities for developers
working directly on the library itself:

```
make unittest
```

will build and run two different unittest executables, `unit` and
`unit-xper`, covering respectively the standard and experimental parts
of the library.

```
make benchmark
```

will build two benchmarking executables: `benchmarknew` benchmarks
`hap.random` itself while `benchmarkold` offers comparable speed tests
of `std.random`.

```
make doc
```

can be used to build documentation.


Contributing
------------

Contributions of code, issue reports or simply suggestions are all welcome.
`hap.random` is released under the Boost License 1.0, so code submissions
must be similarly licensed.
